# tips for installing and configuring SQL Server Express on Linux

If you want to install MSSQL Express on Linux, first visit the official website of that RDBMS, look for the installation section for the Linux distribution you are using, and follow the instructions to download the repository configuration file.

As a further premise, it is advisable to pay close attention to the usage licenses.

## in case you want to install MSSQL

Once this step is done, you can proceed with the usual installation commands, as follows:

```shell
su -
dnf check-update --refresh
dnf search mssql-server
dnf info mssql-server
dnf search mssql-server-selinux
dnf info mssql-server-selinux
dnf install mssql-server mssql-server-selinux
```

### setup with `mssql-conf`

Once the package installation is complete, run `mssql-conf setup` using the full path and follow the instructions to set your password and choose the Express edition.

Here are the commands you could send, keeping in mind that your path may be different:

```shell
whereis mssql-conf
/opt/mssql/bin/mssql-conf setup
```

You'll now be asked to select a SQL Server version. It's best to select the number corresponding to the Express version.

You will then be asked to specify the administrator password.

### service check and subsequent startup

Now you need to verify that the service is running:

```shell
systemctl status mssql-server
```

and, if you want to continue and it is necessary:

```shell
systemctl enable mssql-server
systemctl status mssql-server
```

### network setup

It is important to consider that here you will only find indications for example purposes and that in your case the routes may be different.

Editing the configuration file:

```shell
nano /var/opt/mssql/mssql.conf
```

Now it's time to add the following lines:

```conf

[network]
tcp_enabled = true
tcp_port = 1433
```

### SELinux configuration (optional)

```shell
sestatus
semanage port -a -t mssql_port_t -p tcp 1433
sestatus
```

### firewall configuration

To allow remote connections, you need to open the SQL Server port in your firewall, and again, the following is for example purposes only.

First, for example, you could check connectivity.
From another host on your local network, obviously replacing the Xs with the digits of your IP address, you could type something like this:

```shell
nmap -sn 192.168.XXX.0/24
ping -c 3 192.168.XXX.XXX
nmap 192.168.XXX.XXX -p 1433
```

Considering that SQL Server's default port is TCP 1433, you could issue the following commands:

```shell
ssh your_username@192.168.XXX.XXX
su -
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=1433/tcp
firewall-cmd --reload
firewall-cmd --list-all
~.
```

**The "tilde dot" sequence may be handy if you want to quickly log out of a remote host during an interactive, nested ssh session.**

And finally, always from another host on the same local network, the test could be repeated:

```shell
ping -c 3 192.168.XXX.XXX
nmap -sV 192.168.XXX.XXX -p 1433
```

Just in case it is necessary, you could try restarting the service:

```shell
ssh your_username@192.168.XXX.XXX
su -
systemctl restart mssql-server
systemctl status mssql-server
~.
```

Note, quick and easy method if you want to shut down a remote host:

```shell
ssh your_username@192.168.XXX.XXX "sudo -S poweroff"
```
